# Data Scientist

#### Technical Skills: Python, SQL, MongoDB, Streamlit, Pandas, Numpy, Scikit-learn, Plotly, Matplotlib, Seaborn


## EDUCATION
 - Bachelor's Degree in Mathematics
 - Master Program in Data Science

## PROJECT
### Retail Sales Forecast with ML
[Source code](https://github.com/Preethi-PanneerSelvam/Retail-Sales-Forecast-With-ML)

[Demo](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/preethipanneerselvam_this-project-aims-to-forecast-retail-sales-activity-7181259962889764864-KUxw?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop) 

![Forecast-Sales-using-Machine-Learning](/assets/img/Forecast-Sales-using-Machine-Learning.jpeg)



### Industrial Copper Modelling
[Publication](https://github.com/Preethi-PanneerSelvam/Industrial-Copper-Modeling)
The Industrial Copper Modeling project utilizes machine
learning to tackle sales and pricing challenges in the copper
industry.
![Industrial-Copper-Modelling](/assets/img/copper.jpg)

It encompasses data preprocessing, feature engineering, and
model building, employing regression for pricing optimization
and classification for lead evaluation.
The implementation includes a Streamlit-based GUI for user
interaction, enabling input for predictions and visualization of
model outcomes, along with practical tips for efficient
implementation, including the use of the pickle module and
proper data transformation.

### Phonepe Pulse Data Visualization and Exploration
[Publication](https://github.com/Preethi-PanneerSelvam/Phonepe-Data-Visualization-and-Exploration)
Python-based dashboard: The project uses Python with pandas,
plotly, and streamlit to create a Phonepe Pulse Data
Visualization and Exploration dashboard.
![Phonepe-Pulse-Data-Visualization-and-Exploration](/assets/img/phonepe.jpg)

ETL Process: Data is extracted from Phonepe's GitHub,
processed using Python algorithms, and loaded into a MySQL
database.
User-friendly EDA: The Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
framework enables users to interact with the MySQL database,
filter data with SQL queries, and visualize insights through a
Streamlit dashboard, supported by a detailed user guide.



